hi and welcome to the break kitchen
no Indian meal is complete without a
chapati or two so here's how to make
them so to make these chapati is I've
got one cup of chapati flour well you
can use just plain all-purpose flour and
I'll add in a third of a cup of water a
pinch of salt and mix it to a soft dough
now depending on your flour you might
need to add in a little bit extra water
are usually adding a teaspoon extra at a
time until I feel the dough is gonna be
nice and soft okay I've got a really
nice soft dough here now I'll leave the
dough on a lightly floured surface for
about three or four minutes just to make
sure it's really well mixed it's lovely
and soft it's a bit like it's a bit like
clay soft clay now I'll just put it back
in the bowl cover it and leave it to
rest for 15 minutes after the dough's
have a good rest pop it on your board
then we're gonna cook this into four
pieces just from all the pieces into
little balls now get yourself a flat pan
over a medium high heat like and dust
your work surface take one of the balls
and kind of press it out to about two
inch diameter with your fingers and
thumb
and then roll it out into a circle about
six inches in diameter it's getting
quite thin now keep turning it as you'll
roll it and there can be more or less
circular by the time you've finished all
right I think I'm fairly happy with that
I'm gonna take this across and let me
dump them on a nice hot pan I'll just
leave it sit there for about 20-30
seconds till after 20 seconds I'll flip
it over and after another 20 or 30
seconds flip it over again whoops and
you should notice it's starting to kind
of puff up and when it starts to puff up
use your spatula to help drive the air
bubble through the chapati sometimes it
won't put like a ball because you get a
little hole develop and the steam
escapes through that little hole rather
than puffing up the chapati flip it over
about every 20 seconds or so oh yes
there we go there we go there it is look
woof-woof-woof like a big puff ball play
football with that flip that over one
more time and when it's got these brown
spots on it and he's puffed up like that
he's cooked so we can pop it on the
plate and get on for the next one now
all I need is a nice steaming hot curry
to eat these with chapatis are always
best fresh but they will keep for a day
or two in a plastic bag I hope you enjoy
making your chip patties and do join me
next time in the bread kitchen